hello and welcome to conscious living my
name is Mark Karan and today I'm coming
here live from the beautiful I am awake
Foundation Center where they do
Consciousness research and a lot of
really interesting work in the field of
spirituality medicines Consciousness and
transformation I was blessed to be
invited and uh I'm actually broadcasting
live from here today uh in this episode
of conscious living radio where it's
going to be another spear plant medicine
focused program and I'm happy to invite
my good friend and partner of the
conference Steven Gray and uh Stephen
always a pleasure to have you here we're
going to be airing our program uh today
on 100.5 cfro FM in Vancouver Co-op
radio we're happy to have been running
that program for over 15 years now
locally and Stephen you've been a guest
many times and really a co-host in many
programs so thank you for joining me in
what's I'm sure going to be a really
really great conversation uh with our
guests
today
absolutely well Stephen I I guess you
know you're a man of many words
today so why don't you introduce Our
Guest you've done it many times that's
for sure yeah happy to um well that's
partly because uh um I have a big heart
uh feeling toward Chris but also an
immense amount of respect for him as a
person and for the work that he's done
on behalf of the rest of us um in
elucidating central issues of our time
so um Chris um uh I could ask you um for
a very brief synopsis of uh that 20-year
Journey but maybe you'd allow me to
stumble through it then you can sit back
and smile and see if I got it right um
so um uh welcome to the people who are
alive and those who are going to join us
later uh uh Chris beige the story I know
about Chris is that uh he is now a
retired professor of religion and
philosophy or relig studies and
philosophy from Ohio State University
and Youngstown Ohio and early in his
career uh he uh well he he was always
interested in uh mysticism and deep
spiritual exploration and he came upon
the work of the legendary um excuse me
psych psychiatrist stanislav gr who
pioneered a protocol for working with um
high doses of LSD in particular and
Chris undertook what amounted to to what
turned out to be a 20-year journey of 73
high does LSD sessions uh following the
Stan gra protocol those were sessions
using 500 to 600 micrograms of LSD which
for any of you who are not familiar with
that kind of calculation that's a high
dose um and um uh part that protocol
involves um at home or in a you know
safe quiet space uh with uh headphones
on and a carefully curated playlist um
excuse me eye shades to keep block out
the light so that inter Visions are not
obstructed or mitigated and a um uh a
qualified sitter the person that he had
in this case is a therapist was a
therapist and so knew what she was doing
with the situation and the following day
um so he generally did this on a
Saturday um and then the following day
again uh following the gra protocol he
spent basically the whole day as far as
I recall um with those headphones on
again to kind of twigger memories of
what was playing on the music when he
had certain kinds of experiences and
visions and then meticulously
transcribing all that so Chris is the
author of several books including a book
that I long before I ever met him um uh
from 20 years ago or so called Dark
Knight early Dawn which was really a
really impressive book I really liked it
um standout book I still have it in my
shelves back here um the living
classroom which I have not read um and
hope to because there's a new edition
coming out I believe right Chris yep
yeah and uh the um incredible LSD in the
mind of the universe subtitled diamonds
from Heaven which many people have read
now so um excuse me uh I just want to
add a little bit more about um how I
understand what happened in that 20year
Journey mind you this would be like an
all day description uh if it were to do
justice to what happened but um the the
very very short version is and again
please correct the nuances of this if I
didn't quite remember it correctly Chris
um in each one of those 73 Journeys the
first two hours was as you described it
in the book I believe Chris at one point
um sometimes exquisitly painful um as
you had to go through uh the difficult
process which uh most most of us
probably would never want to go through
actually um of ego dissolution and
Beyond in a sense Beyond ego personal
ego uh dissolution but letting go of any
kind of identity even as a human as I
recall um and then what happened and
again please correct my language if I
haven't got it quite right Chris but as
I recall and in my language you broke
out into what you have called in various
ways um but one way is uh the vast
intelligences of the universe and and
believe me folks I this is no
exaggeration the kind of material that
Chris you might say downloaded or
brought back is absolutely stunning and
absolutely relevant to what's going on
on the planet um one of the things
that's most in my mind anyway important
and absolutely Central about uh the
things that Chris downloaded as it were
um is that um especially in the I I
believe the latter third or so of the 20
years he started to get increasingly
clear and I would say or interpret it as
confident messages that we are uh well
he had already heard I guess that we'd
been we are going through as a species a
a death and rebirth trajectory or
process um that has been coming toward
us for perhaps hundreds of thousand
years or whatever um uh and excuse me
but the confidence that I just mentioned
uh implied that in the later years as I
recall Chris um these voices or this
intelligence started indicating um a
greater likelihood that we would indeed
somehow get through this um and and uh
that we would come out into um what you
might call a natural state of being on
this planet uh you've labeled it the
birth of the future human um so uh there
are so many questions we could ask you
about that uh but but let me ask you a
two-part question to start with first of
all uh correct me on anything that I
didn't quite get right and secondly um
I've been thinking a lot about this um
off and on it's Central to you know my
life and where my mind wants to go and
so one thing that I'm wondering about is
um you have I think you first said you
thought it this process might take
hundreds of years before something you
know the the light might shine again so
to speak but I think it was in a either
an email or a phone conversation in the
last few months you said you might have
had to correct that to say thousands of
years or more than a thousand years um
so I'm trying to keep this simple and
turn it over to you um uh but uh the
context of that question that I'm going
to put to you is that um one of the
things that I and I think Mark also was
really tuned into and probably you is
that there's an incredible amount of
energy going on right now on the planet
to try to recorrect that uh dis
spiritual disconnection um uh so you
know I guess the question is is it
really going to be a complete you know
emptying and dying off over the next
decades or might there be a Crossfade
where um things start to um uh lighten
up or you know the light starts to shine
in more um to counterbalance that um
dissolution so to speak species
dissolution over the next decades for
example pardon me one more little thing
because you know this you're the person
who turned Dwayne Elgen on to me for my
book How psychedelics can help save the
world and he laid out a sort of a
possible scenario over the next six or
seven decades that might result in what
he called the birth of a mature
planetary civilization so how are you
seeing all that now timelines and all
that
yeah first Stephen thank you buddy for
that very nice and warm introduction I
really appreciate our friendship and I
appreciate the what you what you're
doing with the conference and Mark you
too this is a great conference it's my
favorite psychedelic conference to
participate in and I always find it such
a rich rich setting in audience and soup
uh to ask and answer to address these
types of questions so to focus specific
speically in the question you ask I
would strengthen the Visionary component
it was really less like messages
downloading as deep and profound
immersion into trans temporal States Of
Consciousness going into what I call
Deep time letting go moving outside
linear time and also uh these these
Visions started coming into me when I
was a good 12 14 years into my process
so a lot of things that happened before
then ego death entering into this
Collective suffering of entering into
what I think is um some dimension of the
collective unconscious of humanity which
stores all of its pain and suffering
that Humanity has experienced just as an
individual stores their individual
trauma going through that and going into
um archetyp of reality and when I was in
archetyp of reality beginning this work
I began to be download a series of
visionary encounters which kept on
showing me the same basic story that
Humanity was coming to a pivot point in
its evolutionary Journey that this was
that we're like a the karmic screams of
History we entering a canyon we were
about to go through a revolutionary
pivot that would be
Retros we would see it in time as a
before and after transformational event
of an event that was so powerful it was
going to literally trigger a shift in
the collective psyche of humanity so
that all beings born after this shift
had taken place would be operating out
of a different inner landscape a
different Collective psychic
landscape uh and this was R I just was
completely unprepared for this because I
had begun this work thinking that this
was about personal
transformation and then thinking it was
about maybe personal Awakening Spiritual
Awakening but then I enter these
profound Collective territories and then
I began to have these Visionary
downloads about where the Divi where the
creative intelligence of the universe or
where the Divine intelligence was taking
Humanity where all this was going
and so there's these these deep
experiences
of
uh extraordinary Spiritual Awakening
taking place at a collective level
extreme transformation an a deep
intelligence working inside nature
inside history underneath us all
bringing us
about and then but it didn't show me how
this was ever going to take place it
didn't show me the how of it and then in
1995 which look how long ago this is
almost 30 years
ago
uh I went through a very deep experience
in which I was dissolved well beyond
egoic identity dissolved into the human
species became one with the Human family
and in that condition experienced a the
death and Rebirth of humanity a profound
unraveling a loss of control
uh it was a Global Systems crisis that
seemed to be triggered by a cascading
series of Eco
crises uh it was it was excruciating to
experience and it kept building an
intensity and I experienced this not as
a human being not as an individual human
being but I experienc this as the
species and then it seemed to be getting
deeper and deeper we were all forced
into
survival
mode uh and just when it was at its
worst the peak
passed and the dangers began to recede
and we began to pick ourselves up and to
put the pieces back together and when we
did we were changed we found that
something had been Unleashed in us
something had been tapped into something
had been broken open at the very deep
level of our being so that when we began
to build after this crisis all of our
work all of our being all of our
relationships were filled with new
insights new values new understandings
of the human project and there was a
creative contagion that were the work of
individuals and collectives fed back
into each other that was just spiraling
us into very quickly in a into a new
condition I think now now that's the
basic outline and that's clear uh but
like Black Elk in the visions that he
received as a young boy about the future
of his people the my Visions did not
come with dates and it did not come with
a lot of detail uh there were in a lot
of attention paid to the mechanisms
involved but not to the specific pattern
of causation other than this escalating
Global Eco crisis also it did not come
with dates so I don't really have a
sense of uh well of from the Visionary
perspective when this will happen how
long it will last so in order to fill in
all that information I have to turn to
the scientist in terms of their
calculations for the depth and the speed
with which the Eco crisis is moving uh I
turn to people like d Elgen who has been
processing all this information for
decades and I've come to First I've been
surprised that the crisis is coming out
as as fast as it has I thought we had
more time but it's coming out as fast
it's coming out as hard we're still in
the early stages and I think Dwayne is
right the next 50 years are going to be
absolutely pivotal in terms of the
intensity of the ecological forces that
will be bearing down on us that we'll
have to be responding
to I don't think we have a thousand
years if if we don't address this I
don't think I I think of this as kind of
and again I don't say this as a
psychonaut or as a Visionary I say this
just as a person trying to understand
historical
information I think this thing may take
three or four generations and if we
don't make the pivot within that time
frame we may lose the
planet I think the 21st century is the
critical Century that is going to bring
us to our knees and force us to make
choices
that we're not willing to make now for a
variety of different reasons yeah um and
then and I think this is going to be
such a deep pivot it's going to be
result in a a shift in what I might call
the plate tectonics of the collective
psyche the shift at the very very core
of our being and in in other ways I I
think this represents a culmination of a
reincarnational process which has been
building for thousands tens of thousands
hundreds of thousands of
years I think we've been
gestating the next iteration of the
human condition for all this time we've
been reincarnating learning learning
exploring growing becoming more
gestation is long labor is short and
intense life-threatening I think we've
been in gestation for a long time and we
are entering into labor which is it's
going to to be a volatile and very
dangerous
period And I think we will give birth to
this new human this future human many
people have these are having this Vision
they call it different things homo
spiritualis homon
noeticus uh but basically there is this
common intuition that something new is
coming up underneath us it's coming into
expression underneath us and it's being
driven by the same intelligence that
drove the creation of galaxies the
creation of the planet the emergence of
life on the planet the emergence of
conscious Awareness on the planet this
is being driven from deep inside the
process now I think that we classically
say there are no certain outcomes
everybody has to exert full and complete
exertion for us to get through this like
labor it's potentially life-threatening
and mothers die in labor children die
and labor all the time I understand that
and I really endorse that and at the
same
time the entire trajectory of my
psychedelic experience particularly
those in the last five years or so took
me so deep into the future with such
realistic
perception and gave me experiences of
what this future human will be like and
those touches of the future of humanity
just bring me to my knees they're so
extraordinarily beautiful uh it's it's
our deepest dreams come
true and I experienced this pivot as
something which was yet to be
accomplished but
also had already been accomplished so
that from Deep time I experien this as
an actuality that had taken place and
yet for my linear time it's an actuality
which is yet to be take place uh and so
in my heart I don't doubt that Humanity
will make it through this transition my
concern is how many of our children how
many of the world's children will have
to die before we come to our spiritual
senses so that definitely leaves it open
for as you say incredible exertion which
is something that's really important to
people like Mark and I very important oh
yeah let me mention in that context one
other thing one of the things that this
series Visionary series showed me is
that as we enter deeper into crisis the
whole uh foundation of the psyche and
our culture will be shifting into what
uh chaos theoreticians would call non
nonlinear systems there'd be so much
energy so much uh engagement to high
energy engagement that we would be
shifting out of a linear Dynamic of
history into a nonlinear and in
nonlinear we know something about how
nonlinear systems behave and some of the
characteristics and one of the important
characteristics is in a nonlinear
condition systems are particularly
susceptible to small influences small
pert perturbations and that means as we
go into this crisis the actions of
individuals will have proportionately
greater impact than they would have had
at earlier more quiet periods of History
so the individual becomes a a more
Dynamic player moving forward than
individuals have been in the past that's
an incredibly important message for
people go ahead Mark I see your mouth
[Laughter]
moving well you did partly um answer
what I was thinking a little bit uh
Chris because you know there's so much
you said there and then my question is
is what can we do as
individuals as groups as collective
society and you know it's hard enough to
organize important stuff in the world uh
for for a lot of people how do you
suggest that we move forward um from an
starting as me to we to the many what
what do you think is a good approach for
that yeah you know I think they're
probably people who are better qualified
and more skilled at filling in that
particular P piece of how can we respond
I mean I know Dwayne Elgen is really
good at that other people are really
focused on how can we uh move forward
dynamically creatively uh in this
process uh and so I'd rather not I know
Barbara Marx hubard was great remember
on her wheel and all the different
professions I think it's going to take
all of us to get through this it'll take
all the scientists all the Educators all
the politicians all the artists it's
going to take every one of us and all
the skills that we bring to our various
livelihoods to move into this what I
would offer is the metaphysical
perspective that comes from
reincarnation research and without going
into the data supporting this but the
basic vision is when we incarnate we
choose our incarnation we choose the
time and place and circumstances of our
birth and therefore it's it's an axom of
my thought that all the human beings on
the planet right now knew what they were
getting into when they chose to
Incarnate in this Century under these
very demanding circumstances and they
chose to Incarnate with a specific kind
of karmic agenda with a specific sense
of how to contribute so I think each one
of us need needs all we need to do is
look deeply look under our feet to look
at where we are who we are how we are
positioned and the question is not
really I think how do we find the right
thing to do I think the deeper question
is will we have the courage where do we
find the courage to do what we discover
that we can do absolutely the essence of
this pivot is a pivot into Oneness an
Awakening of Oneness underneath our feet
which will completely change technology
how we apply
Technology International
conflict social relationships
organizational Society uh that
fundamental Awakening in the human heart
the healing of the human heart and
Awakening Awakening into a true deep
Vivid mystical experience of the
fundamental Oneness of all
life and that means uh that's an
inclusive vision and so as we move
toward that time in
history and back into ecological balance
of course a Oneness that includes all
living species on the planet the more we
become the the human being that is
trying that the earth needs right now
that culture needs right now the more we
accelerate the transformation of this
this transformational change in our own
role in it we must become the future
being that earth needs and as we do we
enter into synergistic relationship with
other beings who are also working to
become what the planet needs right now
yeah beautiful that's not very no
specifics there are other people who are
better with the specifics yeah right
well I I I agree with you you know I
mean in the sense that we don't know
what people need to do and if I may dare
a bit of a provisional answer about that
um I've got Mark interested in this term
that I got from Steven Herod buer which
I believe he translated from William
Blake which is follow the golden thread
and um so um you know obviously I mean I
think we all know as a it's almost a
platitude in some ways that the uh the
the inner work is the foundation for
moving out into the outer work and that
one would hope that if the inner work is
being done properly effectively then uh
you can follow the golden thread or as
they sometimes say let go and let God
and then it's like that's I think
another um Central component of this
revision that we're dealing with is
we're moving hopefully or we need to
move from sort of uh head-based
calculation of how to move through the
world to heart-based or intuitive based
you know through that and then I just
add one more thing before tossing it
back to you if I may Chris um one of our
other speakers Mary Sanders just sent me
the title of her talk for the spirit
plant medus conference conference for
this year and it's
reimagining Collective care as a path to
Liberation and seems to me that's
another Central component of it you know
you talk about us moving toward Oneness
so the recognition of the power of uh
connection and shared vision and shared
prayer you might even say shared
manifestation uh seems to me Central to
uh this movement forward
yeah I think so I just wanted to add one
more thing if I could gentlemen um
because Stephen you said something about
you know you mentioned the head and you
mentioned the heart and I think it's
because we have so much wisdom and
knowledge you know education type
knowledge um that it's when we lead that
with our
heart is so much more powerful because
you know we can just repeat what we hear
what we read what we learn but it's a in
my experience you know in terms of what
I share I know when I'm in my head and
I'm in my heart and the difference that
it makes in Rapport and relating and
same as when somebody's presenting or
you're working with someone you know the
difference between that and it kind of
reminds me of a a quote that I always
loved hearing that made a lot of sense
was the longest journey you'll ever take
is the one between your head and your
heart
yeah now I would add the third piece and
that is the body the body's wisdom and
of course this is the context within
head and heart meat uh and of course one
of the reasons we're in so much trouble
in terms of the planet is uh we just our
theologies and philosophies had tended
up to aimed us away from the body away
from physical embodiment away from the
earth uh and ignoring the messages that
we've been getting from the earth and
so the an opening of the heart at at
that level an opening of the mind at a
level and an opening of our body to our
body as a cell in the body of the planet
so lots of levels going on all at the
same time yeah yeah very interesting
yeah and to add to that if I may because
the body of course is the connector
between spirit and and and the planet
with the importance of of food and what
we put in our body so you know our
conference called Spirit plant medicine
all plants have Spirit whether it be
broccoli cannabis iboga mushrooms
whatever it is and the importance I
think for us to get back to clean
nutritious food that isn't contaminated
in the same way lets our body work in a
much better way and when we acknowledge
the plants the spirit of the plants
whether it be a psychedelic medicine or
something psychoactive to something
that's just um something to nurture our
body for nutrition and health and
vitamins and all the things that we need
in a good way makes that connection even
more powerful and I feel that you know
in so many ways when we look at the mass
population of you know let's just say
North America you know the quality of
our store-bought food is you know really
we all need to become aware of so no
more beer and pizza
Mark no well everything in moderation I
have to believe you know it's it's like
you know every now and again you have to
have a
zag or not but you understand what I'm
saying it's just yeah what you put in is
of course no that's a really important
one I think um you know Chris you might
have things to say about that but I'd
like to try leading you in another
direction if I may just before I know
Mark's going to want to turn it to
questions soon
um you know you've spoken uh obviously
about the birth of the future human um
and um um there's a um there's a kind of
um humorous uh saying from the famous
baseball uh Catcher And pitcher from the
Yankees from way back when Yogi Bara who
was prone to these sort of malapropisms
that ended up kind of making sense
anyway and one of them was something
like um if you don't know where you're
going you might end up somewhere else so
uh it's a sort of like a two-part
question is like and I don't even know
if you can answer this um I don't want I
know you don't want to step beyond the
BS bounds of your knowledge but
uh what you know we've talked about this
before how would you describe what the
awakened human looks like um in terms of
how they move in the world and so on and
what might be the kinds of signs of
Awakening that people might look for and
it's on this principle if you don't know
where you're going kind of idea right
like I think it is helpful and correct
me anyone if I'm wrong but to have some
kind of signpost is what is the natural
human being looking like what is the
birth of the future human or with the
future human looking like
yeah
well I think our spiritual
Traditions have been giving us uh
insights into uh what's emerging I think
all of the great Saints and Sages and
and that were responsible for
establishing or starting seeding the
religions of the axial age one of the
things that Drew us to them Drew
Humanity to them is because we could
feel a deep resonance with them and they
were kind of the prototypes archetypal
prototypes of what we were becoming and
they invited us to become what they had
become uh and in that way I think in the
Buddhas and the prophets and the Christ
and and the great Saints of all the
deepest spiritual traditions we can see
the prototypes of of what's coming so
um and I the difference is I think that
some people have said and I agree that
the age of individual Enlightenment is
over now it's Collective Enlightenment
or death you know it's it's a collective
game so the the the dynamic that's so
unusual is
uh the inti that nature seems at least
in my experience Visionary experience
nature seems intent on awakening the
entire species to really and and the
entire species is going to go through
what individual Mystics have gone
through in their individual Awakening
the individual Mystic Goes Through The
Dark Night of the Soul a period of
intense purification offloading past
Karma past negativity or behavior
behavior on route to entering into a
clear uh state of awareness which we
would call Spiritual Awakening or
Enlightenment or something along those
lines I think Humanity as a whole is
going is going through or will be going
through is beginning to go through a
collective dark KN of the Soul a pro a
period of profound purification of
confronting what we might think of as
the sins of our fathers which are our
sins because we are our own fathers in
this way but going through a tremendous
kind of purification process uh in order
to clear out our basement so to speak in
order to make us more receptive to uh
increasing energies entering us at this
from the spiritual Dimension at this
time in history now another way of
putting this and it ran through my
sessions
is I think the future human I think
we're coming to a pivot point in our
reincarnational story we've been
reincarnating we we we die we expand to
Soul we incarnate we contract into ego
we expand the soul we contract into ego
and we just keep this
up thousands and thousands and thousands
of years and we're learning and we're
growing and sometimes we step back and
mostly we step forward but we keep on
learning and growing and Enlightenment
is the Eastern Traditions have tended to
see Enlightenment this culminating in
Enlightenment but if we really look at
what that means and uh and often they
think they've tended to place it in a
context you become enlightened and then
you can leave uh you leave time and
space you leave some Sor who wants to be
in in time and space when you can be in
the Bliss of
Eternity but I think that's a
shortsighted understanding of what's
taking place now that we have a better
understand understanding of how big the
universe is how old it is and how
complex it is it doesn't really make
much sense to think that after all these
hundreds of thousands of years of
evolving Humanity the point of
individuated Consciousness and about
just 5,000 years ago Humanity begins to
sink down at that depth layer where they
begin to tap into that dimension of
their own mind which is one with the
mind of all living things uh just at
that point 5,000 years afterward we've
developed writing then when we achieve
Spiritual Awakening then we leave we
just leave it all behind I don't think
that's what's happening I think now
we're beginning to have a deeper
understanding and that is we've been
reincarnating reincarnating
reincarnating and I think we are at a
time when all of our former lives are
beginning to come together they're
they're beginning to come to us and as
they come together they bring forward of
course all their unfinished business
which becomes our unfinished business
business and this is happening
collectively and when this process
reaches critical stage at least it it
this is how it unfolded in my session so
I just I asked the listeners
Indulgence there was a time when all my
former lives started coming into me fast
and furious and they they were fusing
and I've done a lot of past life therapy
work so I'm familiar with a lot of them
but they were just coming in coming in
and then they seemed to fuse they hit a
critical mass and when they hit a
critical mass there was an explosion of
diamond light out of my chest and it
catapulted me into a state of
consciousness where I was an individual
but an individual Beyond any frame of
reference that I had ever imagined
before and I think what I was being
shown or taken into was what happens to
an
individual when they reach this turning
point in their evolution AR Journey
where all of our former lives come
together Infuse and a new identity is
born and this identity I think is the
identity of the soul but it's not the
soul that we encounter after we die it
is that but it's the soul in a human
incarnation in the earth in the body and
this is what I call the birth of the
diamond soul that is I think the future
human will be a human
being where the operating identity will
not be any individual private identity
not a 100 year old identity but it'll be
a 100,000 year old identity we will have
a sense of ourselves a living conscious
memory of ourselves as a being that's
been living in and out of time for
thousands and thousands of years and a
as and a being who is just large larger
has has a deeper sense of themselves a
deeper sense of relationships with other
human beings because if they remember
their former lives they remember their
relationships that they're they were all
involved in and as we have been male
female uh wouldve been every race
imaginable every religion imaginable and
all of these differences are coming
together and fusing to produce an
individuality that holds all of that as
an integrated harmonious
Singularity
okay that I think is is the best take I
have on the future human and I can tell
you that when I was taken at the toward
the end of my Journeys into the deep
time and was given the grace of
experiencing the this new archetype this
future human it just it moved me to
tears it was so beautiful I mean picture
a Humanity completely healed of all the
wounds of History completely healed of
all the divisions that we've etched in
history a Humanity with an open
expansive Compassionate Heart Like The
Best of the Saints through history a
Humanity with their Consciousness open
into deep communion with the creative
intelligence of the universe with fewer
interfering BAU Echoes shadows in the in
the way and a human being who is deeply
committed to being in the body not
trying to get out of time and space but
living increasingly strong focused
intentional life an integration of
spirit and matter inside their physical
existence wow that's that's kind of
theit that's what has been coming into
me that's what I have to offer that was
absolutely beautiful Chris you know um I
I think I'm G to um play this back to
myself with headphones on just before
bedtime for a beautiful bedtime story um
and before are beautiful story we really
are it is extraordinary Hard Times ahead
but deep Deep Beauty coming us we need
that kind of encouragement uh Chris this
is such a gift that you offer to people
you know um uh it puts me in mind of
something um Bishop Desmond Tutu once
said that is um the problem with most
people is they don't believe in the
possibility of possibility we need
people to take heart uh we need people
to believe that what they do as you say
matters more than ever right yeah anyway
I'm guessing um Mark you'd like to open
it up to some questions yeah and just a
second I just wanted to add to that
because I believe that you know as human
beings we can do so much more than that
we think we can do do we have such an
ability to push through to persevere to
you know I don't mean work hard as in
you know crazy but we can do more than
we think we can do and it's by pushing
that limit by pushing ourselves is you
know how we build the muscles you don't
go to the gym build muscle you know
light and few reps you've got to push
through the the pain and you know the
challenging the things that are making
it big
and I think it's something that you know
in some cases and I can speak for myself
personally that we sometimes get a
little soft you know and to remember
that we have the ability to be able to
have that strength to push through so
before we we we go to to um questions I
have one question that some people may
be thinking I don't know if anybody will
ask and I know I've asked this question
of you before Chris
um
but you youve done such an amazing work
on 72 high does
Journeys and as a professor of religious
studies most people would think that's
not what a professor of religious
studies would be doing because you know
the stigma of what LSD might be seen as
yeah what made you what inspired you to
choose that direction or that path for
this deep dive philosophical work work
and what would you say to anybody who
after hearing what you've done and
experienced is there anything that you
would say to them in terms of um you
know some Sage
advice starting at the end my advice is
please don't do it please don't do it
the way I did it I was young and foolish
I know I understand much more now than I
did then I would advise a different
protocol but how I got into this is a
simple story I came out of graduate
school kind of an atheistically inclined
agnostic in philosophy of religion but
i' had a long lifelong passionate desire
to ask the big questions and to seek the
big answers I mean I really wanted to
understand how life Works what's going
on what's why is life filled with so
much suffering what's is there an
intelligence inside the universe
expressing itself I really wanted to
answer those questions if I could and
right after I finished graduate school I
met the work of Stan gr and his book
Realms of the human
unconscious changed my life and very
quickly was followed in 1980 by his
manual LSD
Psychotherapy and I just I knew I wanted
I wanted to do this work I needed to do
this work I don't like breaking the law
but I would I went underground basically
in part of the transitional underground
generation that did this work and I
started doing the high dose work first
as a matter of efficiency that is I was
still thinking it was a personal model
and uh I knew the sessions would be more
intense but it would turn up more of the
the my psyche and I would if I could
manage the intensity I would clean up my
faster and I'd get to Enlightenment
faster turns out all my assumptions were
wrong is not about personal and and when
you work with high high doses you
activate a larger piece of the fabric of
existence and your what may begin as
your individual transformational process
becomes part and parcel of Humanity's
larger AR Collective transformational
process uh but then when when I began to
understand some of this three or four
years into the process I found that I
had developed a taste for working with
high doses I was a my
Constitution was wired such that I seem
to have the ability to get very large
and spacious and very importantly I had
the ability to contract safely at the
end and this is you know not everybody
you know a lot of people shouldn't work
with psychedelics at all and a lot of
people should not work with high doses
of a powerful psychedelic like LSD so
this is you know and I would do it
differently even if you have a natural
AP itude even if you have the capacity
even if you have the strong social
setting that supports you in this work I
would be much gentler I would be a gent
take a gentler weigh in I'd work with
more lower doses I would balance the
occasional high dose with integrating
lower doses I'd work with not only LSD
but i' balance it with working with
psilocybin or
iasa uh the the vegetative psychedelics
uh so there's just a lot of things I I
would do differently yeah but but um uh
you know you can't answer this question
of course because it's the road not
taken but you know just speculatively
would you have been able to um bring
back such deep and Powerful information
had you not put yourself through this
fire uh it
it it I found that it takes a lot of
work work and a lot of
discipline uh in order when you go very
deep in the universe and you transcend
so many levels of time and space and
identity and species identity and into
archetypal and Beyond archetypal reality
you're breaking into so many layers of
new
territory that uh it's very hard to stay
conscious at those levels and often will
people will only bring back pieces but
if you work consistently and with
discipline you can learn how to stay
conscious at those levels and you can
bring back more and more but it's a
discipline it's it really for me it's a
philosophical discipline to really not
only engage and break into new territory
but to bring the experiences back and
and get them down in writing or art or
music different people in different
modalities but to bring them inside
one's being to learn to live by the
insights that they give you uh so
I I may not have gone out as far as I
ended up going
out uh but I also learned that going out
is not everything that I thought it was
going to be in the early stages I
thought that the farther out you went
the more profound the impact would have
and allow you to hold and change your
life and you'd become an enlightened
being and um
and so depth was related to if you did
it right was related to stabilizing the
impact of these deep immersions what I
learned is that it's a much more
complicated process than I had initially
thought the process of retaining and
holding on to those experiences is much
bigger than simply remembering them uh
to integrate a journey is different than
integrating individual sessions uh and I
found that the Tas task of integrating
such a radical
Journey it will take me lifetimes I
think to integrate where I went and and
I I don't think I could ever integrate
them in that sense of being able to hold
them enter them uh live from them uh
during my current lifetime this just the
universe is too big and it took me in
too deeply uh to sort of hold
it well I thank you deeply uh for having
done that work for us anyway I know you
didn't start out to do it for Quote us
but it turned out that way turned out
that way yeah I I like the comment on
efficiency so uh we have a comment here
in the chat Melanie white says thank you
Chris she loved the book LSD in the mind
of the universe and thank you for
sharing your insights with us tonight uh
and I think that'd be a great segue
um for those of you watching online
maybe just the live streams after the
factor or even live right now we have a
studio audience here in our Zoom where
we're going to take some questions we do
have a question here from Jacob uh
Michael if you can bring Jacob in we'll
unmute him and uh we'll hear what he has
to ask welcome to the program Jacob
thanks for for joining us and asking a
question
yeah thank you uh it's going to be my
first Spirit PL medicine conference this
year so very exciting to kind of join
you
beforehand um I was deeply struck by the
book Christopher and it articulated a
process that I seem to find myself in
some of the early stages of um not to
presuppose that it would go in the same
direction but um certainly I'd never
encountered anybody who had been
dropping into those itive levels
um
and yeah much much more to say about the
richness of of the work but the the
question I wanted to put to you is
really um whether you'd really
encountered like how does this process
and journey for you relate to
christology or did you have kind of
Christ Avatar experiences and how does
that kind of map
onto the process for you yeah
interesting question Jacob um there have
been two religious Traditions or
spiritual Traditions that have had the
largest influence on my life the first
was Christianity and the second is
Buddhism and I also taught world
religions for decades and so I I spent
semester after semester going around the
planet in my mind with my students doing
a hou you know Houston Smith kind of
Journey in and out of the world
religions and I they just all became
they became passionate lovers for me and
each one of them taught me so
much and while I started in a sense
within the Christian
framework uh I also began to understand
over time that Christ is the the
fruition of a spiritual impulse in the
Middle East that parallels in certain
seminal ways way the fruition of the
spiritual impulse in India the fruition
in Africa the fruition in uh in South
America that I began to see larger
patterns so for me if christology is the
study of the Christ archetype for me
that archetype is bigger than Jesus but
it kind of It's a
larger Dynamic of profound Prof
Awakening of the human heart profound
Awakening of the of of the mind of the
Spirit uh so I just kind of I live and
breathe in in kind of the Universalist
Waters which on the one hand recognizes
the distinctness of each of the lineages
but also uh recognize the the
overlapping Common Ground now uh I you
know I didn't have a lot of experiences
of of Avatar kind of beings or Angelic
beings or even Spirit guides uh I didn't
have um you know the machine elves
encountered that people sometimes do
with DMT and I didn't have a lot of
experience of
individuated beings in my journey and I
know that a lot of people do and so I
don't question that there the universe
is filled with beings that we often
encounter in psychedelic sessions my
sense is that the nature of the work I
did my sense is that maybe this is a
hypothesis you have to be a being to
experience beings you have to be a self
to experience sells in the universe and
if your work grinds you fine just grinds
you repeatedly into dust then when that
dust goes out into the universe it sort
of takes you into the fabric of life
rather than putting you into individual
dialogue with individual pieces of life
even deeply spiritual large pieces of
life so it I was drawn into archetypal
Dynamics archetypal Dimensions I was
drawn into and I always was in there was
a Consciousness guiding my sessions I
always felt in the hands of of some a
massive
Consciousness but this Consciousness
never appeared to me in any kind of
concrete physicalist type of form I felt
it as a presence it guided me deeper and
deeper and deeper it it was open-ended
and infinite but it didn't distill
itself into particular forms so was that
you see how that kind of gets
complicated around christology
one hand it affirms the Deep essence of
it and on the other hand it uh it
doesn't get concretized into our
historically specific Expressions you
see yeah was there a visual component to
these
Journeys uh very strong visual
components uh not hallucinatory I mean I
could pull off my eye shades in the
middle of the journey and I was not
hallucinating but very very deep visual
components yes
uh but I never saw the
intelligence that I was experiencing so
intimately I mean this intelligence
would draw me into it would Purify Me
and beat me up and crush me and and
destroy me again and again and then when
I'd gone through the the purification
process it would receive me and take me
and educate me and take me through
things over and over again until it was
sure that I understood what it wanted me
to to know and then it would take me on
deeper but it never adopted a form that
I could identify as
such well thank much could I do a brief
brief followup question sure nobody else
has their hands up so go for it cool
um your work also resonated a lot for me
with that of Pier Tad jadan and I
wondered if your like to what how did
how do you feel his work kind of mapping
with your sense of this kind of as an
epocal birth period um yeah just
assuming you're familiar with his his
writings and isn't it striking the
overlap uh I mean really the profound
insights that he had to humanity coming
to a turning point and the News sphere
and uh you know he was trained as a
geologist and so he had this large his
historical landscape uh and with his
deep natural spirituality uh and his
deep Christian faith he saw so much uh
and I I think there is an overlap uh and
I had read you know shardan uh in
graduate school and I had read many
spiritual teachers and and many but uh I
don't think they I mean just a sort of
anticipate a question that some readers
might have I don't think it shaped my
experience of what actually happened in
the session
uh it it helped me understand and
interpret what happened in the sessions
but the sessions had their own
generative power which seemed to be
drawing from a different kind of source
but that sardan saw as much as he sell
all on his own in his you know
non-amplified
capacity just awesome just awesome
yeah well thank you so much for the
question Jacob and if anybody else has
uh any questions for Chris now is the
time if you want to raise your digital
can turn turn your camera on we'd be
happy to take your
question looks like we're good or you
can raise your physical hand oh there we
go Jackie H are you good there we go
we'll ask you to unmute here
awesome hi Chris hi Jackie I one um so
this is maybe like you would said in
terms of like the movement of the planet
and all the urgency and what direction
we move into that there are people
better suited maybe to fill in the
details but I'm thinking about like what
are the things that might be happening
now in terms of accelerating shifts in
Consciousness um like are there things
is are psychedelics part of that you
know Steph's book can psychedelics help
change the world um how do we stabilize
those things and I'm I'm thinking about
like I know there are groups of
meditators deep meditators for example
who are working with lowd do 5 Meo as a
kind of uh Ally for achieving nature of
mind uh meditation or a kind of idea
that somehow these excursions can help
us restructure so that we can contain
more or have more capacity for these
shifts in Consciousness um um so I'm
just curious your thoughts on that like
not that I know of course you can't
Advocate that everybody go do
psychedelics but just what your thoughts
are like if you had a workshop what
would you train people to
do well first I just want a big yes to
everything you're saying uh I think
we're all
hardwired into the collective psyche I
mean it's we are truly embedded our
individual life is a cell within the
life of our species
physically at a physical biological
level and also at a at a mental level
spiritual level so everything we do
registers in the collective psyche and
the collective psyche shapes everything
that we do I mean it it creates the
structures in the
territory uh so in an extreme example is
I think when I die I take my psychedelic
experiences with me but I also think
that the spe species mind will keeps it
too because I I was a human being when I
had these experiences so they become
part of the human family of experience
and therefore they continue to even if I
never reincarnate it again these
experiences would be alive within the
human family and this is true for all of
us everything we're doing continues to
live so the the harm that we bring into
life registers in the Human family the
healing that we bring into life the
insights that we bring the care and
compassion that we bring all kind of
Infuse the network of life that is the
Human family and and Beyond the Human
family so yeah I think that when we work
uh as the spiritual Traditions tell us
there is no such thing as private
spiritual
practice so you know the first thing you
do in in Buddhist tradition when you do
a practice is you cultivate bodh or the
desire to save or to in to help all
sentient beings and the last thing you
do at the end of the practice is you
distribute the Merit to all levels of
being all six levels of the BAU to all
levels so you're constantly the the the
Trap that we can get caught in is to
think that it's all about some personal
Enlightenment or personal exercise and
the spiritual Traditions are telling us
just the opposite it's not about you
dummy it's it's all of us you know it's
all all of us so open your heart open
your mind let the pain in bring the
healing out uh and when we do that I
think we can just trust that everything
we're doing is being conserved and used
by the other beings who are alive at
this point in time in fact that's one of
the things I'm going to be talking about
at the conference because in my life I
was an academic I had to keep all this
work completely hidden I never let my
students knew know what I was doing I
was always you know that was a private
part of my life but I found that my
students began to be activated by my
psychedelic work and they there was a
certain transparency opening between
their mind and my mind and I began to
understand it was as if my students were
showing me that what I had experienced
about the nature of Consciousness that
ultimately it's all one integrated
consciousness it was as if what was
happening in my classroom was
demonstrating that this is true and
eventually it forced me to to learn an
entirely new way of teaching that was
respectful of these Quantum fields that
were emerging in our work together so
there is no such thing as private
practice there is no such thing you know
we're all in this together we're arm in-
arm everything we do serves uh everyone
in the process beautiful yeah thank you
thank you for that question Jackie was
coming in from Philadelphia it's really
great to see people coming in from
different parts of the world we have uh
another one person joining us from
Salisbury UK uh different parts of Al
well here's Albuquerque New Mexico one
things albu technology all right Michael
K Michael K has a question I'll unmute
you here Michael there we
go oh you're muted you're not at your
you'll have to there you go you'll have
to click the request there you are hello
everyone hello yeah I'm calling from uh
lake Lake Geneva
Wisconsin and uh Chris I wanted to focus
on your experience in the
collective of the human species yeah and
relating that to uh individual efforts
today and you mentioned that you carry
hope for the future you you were that we
will come through this birth process but
could you expand a little bit more on
the relationship between the individual
and Collective and do with what you just
said uh in the final comments on the
last question do you think that the
right inspiration from the right
individual will spread much faster in
the future into the collective
Consciousness with acceptance far faster
than it has been in the past
yeah Welly if we if we just look at
what's going on around us right now you
know America is in a a presidential
election and we see a deeply divided
country and we couldn't have candidates
more Polar Opposites than the than the
candidates we have and such deep um
polarization of political of the
political spectrum and we see this in so
many different areas of discourse so it
is ex we're in very turbulent choppy
uncertain times uh and I it's not just
uh the truth that catalyzes connections
with greater truth but also lying
catalyzes lying you know and Darkness
catalyzes Darkness so the collective
this dynamic between the individual and
the collective is not simply a sunny
side of the street Dynamic it also
applies to the darker side of the street
and we see this in in shamanic culture
CES where they are dealing not just with
healing but they're also dealing with
dark Forces and um managing them or
controlling
them I think however that Carl Young is
right that uh nature tilts towards
growth I think it tilts towards us
becoming more than we are larger than we
are wiser than we are more intelligent
than we are nature tilt towards growth
and I think
that if nature is trying to bring about
this pivot towards this higher form of
Consciousness
emerging even though we are experiencing
tremendous upheaval from the at the
collective level politically
socially uh
culturally I think the deeper movement
is towards higher better truer clearer
uh
better good more good and so I think
that um if nature favors growth that
individuals who have made the transition
in their own being that humanity is
trying to make collectively I think of
those individuals as becoming kind of
seed Catalyst their very presence helps
catalyze what's trying to emerge out
underneath our feet at a collective
level so do think that individuals have
tremendous power to
influence not just physically not just
by physical contact but all the
spiritual Traditions have recognized
that there is a a subtler form of
influence that radiates around people
when they do deep spiritual practice
that's why the Chinese traditions always
valued having a
contemplative practicing in their
Community outside of town the Christian
monasteries and naries have always
understood that their work their
spiritual practice had had a beneficent
influence on the surrounding communities
so I think that's going to be increasing
as we move
forward
beautiful great
question thank you for for that Michael
and I I think unless anybody else raises
their hand in the next you know half a
second or so um we'll we'll start
wrapping up our program and Chris I
first I want to just thank you for you
know the work that you do
and let you know how much I appreciate
you I've got to know you over the past
number of years as you've uh been a
great supporter of the spe plant
medicine conference and your
graciousness your wisdom your energy and
that of your beautiful wife Christina as
well you know it's just it's so yeah
beautiful to be in your presence and to
hear your words and and bring take that
in so I just want to let you know how
grateful I am for for you and the work
that you do and I'm gonna have to pay
you later when you get up here Chris
because you know at the beginning you
said it's one of the best psychedelic
conferences ever so thank you for that
um which leads into a segue that that I
just wanted to share with people that
you know if you're here in the zoom room
and you're watching and you're thinking
about coming to the conference or you're
not sure or you're watching online one
of the things that we do is bring in
this virtual aspect so that we can be um
live in person maybe not in person but
we have a virtual community where you
can connect with each other you can have
questions and answers with the speakers
uh in the room as well we bring in Chris
was one of our surprise guests last year
who came in um and and talked to some
folks in the room and you know just have
that different way of connecting and
being able to participate cuz not
everybody uh we understand can come and
join us physically there's always
limitations and time frames but if you
can join us in person we'd love to see
you there and we love to see you uh in
the virtual room and the bonus of the
virtual stuff too is you get replays and
you can come back into the membership
and you can catch up on it instead of
just getting that one hit from the room
in in a physical presence so thank you
so much for for your work Chris I really
appreciate the support of you and and
your beautiful wife uh with her
conference and I I got a shirt for you
because I know the ones you like ah good
yeah I've worn the other ones so much
they're getting worn out so a new shirt
is good you know you're not the only one
as a funny side note but it's true I was
at the Unicorn music festival for those
who don't know and John Stockton is he's
a beautiful soul and he's a lawyer from
the days of cannabis and everything else
and I had seen him for a while and he
comes up to our our our tent and stuff
at the at the conference and he's
wearing the same shirt the the Green
Tree shirt and like you said Chris it
was all worn out he loved it it was one
of his favorite shirts so he had to set
them up with another one just a funny
story as a as a sidebar for for that um
but if there's anything that you want to
add Stephen or Chris before we uh wrap
it up that would be
great well um uh excuse me um I'm
assuming you'll say a little bit more
about ways that people can join the
conference Mark um but also um uh I have
a particular question for a friend of
mine who lives in Switzerland and wanted
to uh catch this interview um but it'll
be 2 am there right now or when it's
started and so uh how can he see this
later because um and the other thing I
want to say to anyone who's still with
us now um plus anyone who sees this
later is uh if you if you heard the
things that Chris say said today along
with perhaps other information that he
has shared this is absolutely important
for our planet right now to hear these
things that Chris is saying absolutely
Central and
um at the very least I mean you know the
Basic Ground of that in a sense is the
encouragement and sort of uplifting
that's going to be needed as we go
through these you know increasingly
challenging times on the material Level
I mean there's going to be no doubt you
know what's already happened and will
increase further is deeper levels of
anxiety and depression and confusion and
tendencies to grasp onto um you know
unreasonable hopes such as you know
what's going on in the Maga movement for
example etc etc so I my my dream My Hope
Is that thousands and thousands of
people will watch this interview and so
starting with my friend Craig in
Switzerland how can he tune into it Mark
well what a great question Stephen
thanks for asking it's really simple
first off uh for anybody who signed up
we're going to send out an an email um
with the link direct link but you can
check out our spirit plant medicine uh
YouTube channel it's streaming there
live as we speak uh you can check out
our Facebook page uh as well it's
streaming live there as we speak and so
they're always there for replays after
the fact and if you're inspired or moved
by what you're hearing please please
share it with your friends share it far
and wide and that helps the algorithms
as well in the social media platforms to
um you know start showing it more and
more so it's really important that if
there's something here that moved you
please you know find those and share
them uh far and wi so it's easy to find
and we'll send out some email reminders
so and I would like to put in one final
pitch for people to attend the
conference because of the again the
kinds of things that Chris has been
sharing is that we are moving into to a
collective journey and um quite honestly
this is not really a sales pitch I don't
see it that way it's a it's a it's a
call to a gathering um I've been I've
been tending to think of the conference
as an empowerment Hub now that uh we can
support and Empower and encourage each
other by meeting whether it be you know
they can only make it virtually um or
even better of course in person um it's
it's it's part of the collective Journey
that we're working with here yeah
yeah if I can jump in and just put
another heartfelt plug for the
conference because I mean truly I just
love going to the conference it's an
intimate conference uh it's not like God
bless Maps you know but it's not like
the 13,000 me mega conferences this is a
a group of dedicated practitioners
working with many therapeutic modalities
with many substances as opportunities
for uh conversations and a lot of new
things get open there I release diamonds
LSD in the mind of the universe in 2019
I think it was right we got it early
released there uh and now at this
conference I'm going to be releasing as
part of my presentation the new edition
of the living classroom which is the
first time that I'm able to really tell
the story of the role of psychedelics
that psychedelic played in the the ideas
that I wrote about in the original
version of 2000 in of the living
classroom in 2008 where I thought it was
best to keep psychedelics out of the
story so there's just there's new
material that comes forward new ideas
and there's just nothing like the
contagious quality of being in the room
with like-minded people and the
interactions and exchanges that take
place it's
just it's just really a wonderful Wonder
ful place to be hey Chris have you been
talking to um Colin at all about getting
that book in time for the conference yes
uh oh good I think we're going to have
it in time it's going to be an Advan
release
uh I don't know whether we'll have the
paperback I don't think the paperback is
going to be out and so that means it's
going to be a bit pricey uh because
it'll be the hard back you know and it's
Sunni press State University of New York
Press and uh but
yeah we will have copies there I wish we
were going to have the paperback but
that won't be out for another year hey
Mark maybe we could um offer um a slight
special discount ticket price if they uh
purchase the book at the same
time well that that's a good one I'm not
sure how I would uh rip that out of my
mind right now I want to warn you it
it's a pricey I don't remember exactly
what it is but it's it's aimed at
libraries you know the the hard always
is yeah who's theer we'll definitely
share it share it out there far and wide
for those interested um as as well
through our community and you know it's
thank you for your kind words Chris and
it is the
the let me just get the marbles out of
my mouth it's not really a conference we
just call it a conference it's a
ceremony and then we kind of put a
conference inside of it right so um the
it certainly is is a communitybased
gathering and you know I'm blessed to be
here today at the I am awake foundation
and this is a story
about um Chris and JY and the work that
they're doing in Consciousness research
and exploration and they met at the spe
plant medicine conference in 2019 and
their work Grew From there so they've
been doing this beautiful work for five
years we've met so many people who have
met and you know created relationships
and you know doing business and working
together and just connecting that that
we've seen is is a great connecting
opportunity and even if you're not in
person you still have that ability uh in
the virtual world as well because you
have the ability to connect and chat
like-minded people so if you're
interested by all means please join us
there's many ways to do so and we'd love
to see you there whether virtually uh
and of course in person there's always
room so uh that being said I just want
to thank you again Chris for the work
you do I look forward to seeing you and
Christina again in in the very near
future and Stephen thank you as well for
being my partner and co-host and
everything that we do together it's
always always a pleasure and I also want
to give a big shout out to Michael
Krauss who is behind the scenes he's uh
just a beautiful soul who does a lot of
great work with UniFi the world peace
movement and and many many different
things regarding spirituality there he
is there Michael thank you for your
support always as we do these programs
so we can do can can I I can't raise my
hand because of the technology behind it
um well you've got you've got all the
power really man so I know I know I know
and and I just wanted to deeply deeply
express my gratitude to you specifically
Chris um for your wisdom for your
knowledge and having done the work for
all of us and and what I really got from
you and and and really feeling into your
energy and you said presence earlier on
is where you've arrived in that deepest
deepest level of the of the gentleness
of your heart and that to me that is
what we need to cultivate across the
planet if we want to move into that new
transformation and I I I I would want to
get emotional almost because I can I can
feel the presence of you and and I I
just deeply want to bow to you for your
work for your wisdom for your knowledge
and and and the beauty of your soul and
and thank you thank you thank you and it
what an honor to be um supporting this
through the technology here in the in
the background and um and also thank you
Steve and and thank you Mark the the
beauty that shines through you and and
the commitment mhm is is unparalled
so thank you for that Michael and you
know as a segue Hey Stephen next this
Thursday two days from now we've got a
great series coming up in in the in the
next month of pre-conference events and
conversations this Thursday four o'clock
Marco Sanchez and aaia Lewis will be
joining us and they're both absolutely
brilliant they were in my humble opinion
no offense to any of the other speakers
last year they were the two strongest
and for me personally they're both
brilliant and have a lot of really
relevant things to say and um hey
Michael if you're still listening um
lucky for you Chris has gone beyond the
level of spiritual realization where
he's seduced by
flattery and then lastly hey next
Tuesday a week from today Rick doblin
from M all right way to go and then I
think the following Thursday after we
have
um soy Keen uh soy Ken um yeah actually
we have to talk about that um hey about
the time let's just talk about who's
joining us next Thursday and we'll talk
about that no part of that Mark is we
might possibly have to switch that to
Wednesday uh for Anya but we'll have to
talk about it um okay well next week
stay tuned we got lots coming just yeah
check your emails and make sure you
confirm that so you get everything we'll
be posting that we just want to let
everybody know so with that being said I
just want to wrap up with a nice little
closing for conscious living on Co-op
radio my name is Mark Kuran joined by
Steven Gray and our special guest Chris
bash here on 100.5 cfro FM in Vancouver
until next time take care of each other
thank you he everybody
all right we are